So you like
to wear masks, huh?
Okay.
Batman.
Uh, where did they come from?
You weren't born wearing it, right?
You were born laughing too loud, crying
too freely, asking too many questions.
You were you raw, radiant, unapologetic.
Now you're constantly editing
yourself to the extent that you've
forgotten who you really are.
Let's take a look at where these
come from and why they exist.
Okay, so at some point in your life you
learned consciously, or not, that it
wasn't fully safe to be your whole self.
You picked up messages about what
was acceptable, what was attractive,
what was manly or girly, what was
weak or strong, what was good or bad.
So you brilliant, magnificent
creature that you are adapted,
you got good at performing.
You started editing your truth, your
unique greatness, toning down your
joy, biting your tongue, pushing your
pain aside, because it made things
easier, safer, more predictable.
Right?
You didn't choose your
mask out of weakness.
No.
You're like Will hunting, right?
A genius who's masquerading
as a janitor, so no one will
notice that you're different.
You chose it because at the
time it served a purpose.
And you just, you don't
have just one, by the way.
You have so many and you'll
pull it out the right one for
the right occasion, right?
Campbell called these persona,
the wardrobe of society.
It's a set of pre-approved identities,
roles you're assigned, expectations
you're told to meet, and they're different
based on the culture you grow up in.
Okay.
Maybe your parents were judgemental,
so you became quiet, agreeable.
Uh, maybe they were super
accepting, so you became the rebel.
Maybe you were praised for being
a high achiever, so you learned
to perform for gold stars and a
report card full of as, right?
Maybe being sensitive, got you labeled
too much, so you shut that part down and
became callous and quote unquote strong.
Right?
The persona is the mask you wear to
be accepted while the ego is the story
you tell yourself about who you are.
But what happens when you forget
you're wearing a mask, right?
You don't just forget who you are.
You start believing that you are what
the world rewarded you for being, and
now you're really stuck, aren't you?
You're constantly draining your energy
by pretending and never refueling by
getting what the real you actually needs.
You're in an endless cycle of pursuing
more of what's actually draining
you, thinking that it's eventually
gonna make you feel fulfilled.
And then one day you wake up
midlife maybe, and you realize
you don't know how you got here.
You're surrounded by
choices that you made.
But it feels like none of
them were actually yours.
And you might think that once you become
aware that you're no longer in that
environment, that you no longer need
the defense that you could just drop it.
Right?
Well, that's easier said than done because
honestly, that's where the gold is.
Okay.
And it's the beginning of what's
called the left hand path.
Which is a term that's out of Hindu
and Buddhist traditions, right?
The left hand path stands in contrast
to the uh oh, you guessed it.
You're a smart one.
The right hand path, right?
That's the one that aligns with society.
The one where you follow the same
religion as your parents always did.
Stay in the same town that you grew up in.
Work where your cousins worked and
maintain traditions and the status quo.
Remember Will Hunting right?
The left hand path though it's
the road that leaves the village.
The one no one told you existed.
And if they did, it was
like, "That guy Bruno.
He's crazy.
He took that road once and
then we never saw him again.
We don't talk about bru, Bruno."
The left hand path isn't about
rebellion for rebellion's sake.
It's about truth.
Your truth.
It's the path you walk when
you stop pretending, when
you stop needing permission.
But here's the catch.
The moment you start stepping
into the truth of who you
are, the system pushes back.
Hard.
Because, when you take off your
mask, it threatens everyone
that's still wearing theirs.
You stop being one of us and
you start becoming one of them.